# MNY

1
Digital Note Values & Synthetic Utilities
By Daniel Mark Harrison (Daniel@Zurcoin.org)
July 2 – 15, 2018
ABSTRACT: Cryptocurrencies have the potential to offer investors unrivalled returns
as a result of their unique value-utility properties such as limited supply quotas and
exponential payment utility. In the past decade, we have all seen the effects of this as
Bitcoin has surged more than 1 million percent and other cryptocurrencies such as ETH
and more recently, XRP, have followed similarly. However, what is less understood is
that the invention of smart contracts by Vitalik Buterin in 2015 has now given rise to a
potential form of value inflation that is not covariant on market hype or randomness.
Rather, we are in a stage of potential Blockchain evolution now wherein developing
cryptocurrencies with more than 1 million percent plus value inflation events are not
just achievable but can be continually repeated and sustained. I show how by
synchronising basic escrow functions and token issuance cycles between smart
contracts how it is possible to develop what is in effect the world’s first inflatable form
of cash value. I detail how a synthetic income swap utility employing the smart contract
function enables any calculation of a cryptocurrency asset via standard discounted
cashflow mechanisms, in effect, putting cryptocurrencies on par with securities, real
estate and any number of income-generating assets. In doing this, I identify the first
ever synthetic income cash instrument. I answer specific questions about the veracity
of the huge performance gains inherent in cryptocurrencies and show how they are nonpyramid-
biased and are in fact, entirely market randomized returns similar to those of
any others in most investment products. Finally, I show how this non-securitised form
of cash synthetically mimics core Blockchain functions and coding in value form,
which may be of significant consideration with respect to innovation trends on
Blockchain in general.
I. CALCULATING FINANCIAL VALUE FOR BLOCKCHAIN ASSETS
1. Introduction: The History of Money
Money as we know it today has been a feature of our world since around 800 BC – 600 BC,
when the first coins were minted in Turkey between the reigns of King Alyates II and Queen
Hermodike II. Coins were first minted with the exact amount of metal stipulated and only later
during Roman times did coins become regularly debased and did seigniorage become a feature
of the manufacture of cash instruments. Separately, the Chinese Emperor Qin Shi Huang
introduced a copper coin in about 200 BC which was made with a hole through the middle of
it, affording it additional mobile utility by way of being able to be carried on the back of horses
via a single string that ran through the coins’ center as opposed to in much heavier ceramic
pots. While the Chinese were some centuries late to adopt the concept of coinage versus
western societies, their invention of the paper note in the 7tt – 11th century predates the earliest
form of paper money in Europe by around half a millennium. Around 1700, banks in England
began independently printing banknotes which could, once brought into the bank, be
exchanged on the spot for a pre-agreed amount of silver. Thus, in their original form, bank
notes were nothing less than securities according to the contemporary definition – that is to
say, promises to pay the bearer a fixed agreed amount of money on a certain date in the future.
2
Notes were designed with the intent of being able to represent larger sums of underlying base
metal and to be more convenient to draw on. Later they became effective fundraising
instruments for British banks, since customers would seldom exchange their notes for metal
and thus a greater amount of value could be issued than was held in vaults by the banks.
2. Digital Notes: The Evolution of Cryptocurrencies from Tokens to Proxy Coins
Cryptocurrencies began with the creation of Bitcoin in 2009 by a pseudonymous programmer
named Satoshi Nakomoto. All cryptocurrencies from the time of Bitcoin up until the Ethereum
Virtual Machine went live in 2015 were referred to as digital coins. When Ethereum was
invented, the creator Vitalik Buterin proposed a method of digital currency manufacture on top
of its protocol whereby tokens could be constructed by entering a few lines of code into the
Ethereum Blockchain and paying the miners in ETH, the network’s local currency, for
verifying the creation of the tokens. In economic terms, token money is money where the unit’s
face value exceeds the cost of production of the unit.
Nearly all money today in circulation can be considered token money. Blockchain Tokens bear
a remarkably similar relationship to digital coins in that with the minting of a digital coin, the
face value may exceed the cost of production according to the market but it is still in part
determined by the electricity cost in producing it. With digital tokens, cost of production is so
negligible that sale price is always greater than production cost no matter what.
Given that Blockchain is now one decade into its evolution as a financial technology (albeit it
even if it is not yet one adopted by the major part of society), it becomes only logical to ask –
what are the characteristics, the functions and what is the utility of digital notes?
A digital note ideally ought to answer a question commonly asked since the gold standard was
abolished by President Nixon in 1972 and one which you hear commonly asked on Blockchain
today. That question is: what is the real value property of a unit of currency?
Given that notes began life as promissory paper, we can easily simulate such a scenario without
necessarily securitising the product by enabling a re-exchange of the token for its original unit
of purchase as a result of the smart contract’s ability to escrow sums of payment for extended
period of time. For example, if someone pays 1 ETH for a token we create on the Ethereum
network, we can extract a fee for the manufacturing process and innovation of the token and
subsequently we can allow the remaining portion of the ETH to be held securely in the token’s
smart contract until a certain date in the future when it can be re-exchanged for the token that
it was first used to purchase.
If we alter the algorithm between issuance of the tokens and re-exchange of the tokens with
the ETH in the smart contract, for instance by progressively issuing less tokens per ETH
entered into the smart contract at point of issuance and then equalising all re-exchanges of
tokens and underlying cryptocurrency in the smart contract on a fixed like-for-like basis, the
result is one whereby a leverage effect in terms of the price of the initial unit of digital currency
used to pay for it is created by the holder commonly getting back more ETH than they
submitted initially. It was on this basis that we first created Futereum in January 2018. Thus,
Futereum can be considered the world’s first digital note.
At heart, a digital note is nothing more than a proxy digital coin, or a proxy digital token, being
the unit of token money value that is employed in temporarily representing the digital coins in
the token’s smart contract prior to re-exchange. Because digital notes represent actual
3
cryptocurrencies that they are in some sense categorically themselves, as opposed to an
alternate form of value such as when a paper note represented a pound of silver, the effect is
one whereby digital notes are able to be employed in leveraging and artificially magnifying
potential investment returns for digital currency investors across a broad range of digital assets,
and employing a whole series of highly-imaginative cost-of-sale formulas that ultimately affect
the price of the notes themselves. In this way we are the first to have identified how to engineer
not just utility but also value on the Blockchain.
To summarise, a digital coin is a unit of cryptocurrency attached to the creation of a specific
Blockchain. A digital note is a smart contract utility-enhanced token where the token is used
by way of being ascribed a proxy value for the underlying value that is stored inside the smart
contract for which the token is ultimately re-exchanged.
3. Value Reflection & Value Loading In Digital Notes
Digital notes can be expressed in the form of any token with a smart facility where the escrow
function in the token’s smart contract or similar facility represents a possible storage place for
any sort of crypto value for a period of time. Digital monetary instruments, as for any monetary
instrument, rise in value the higher the value of the goods they purchase rise in price. This is
not a well-understood process, but it is a process I have identified in both real and in digital
economies. It is easier to identify in digital markets due to constrained supply of digital assets,
making such trends more noticeable. We can call this scenario where a type of value is
conferred onto the currency as a result of the currency being able to purchase an asset of a
comparatively higher price value for what it is: reflection.
Value reflection is still not very well understood. An example is where 100,000 tokens are
enabled to purchase 100,000 shares of a company at the value of $5 per share. In such a case,
the tokens would immediately have $500,000 of reflected value. If they did not, someone else
would simply purchase the tokens under that sum and then use them to purchase the shares
which they would sell for a marked-up price to make an arbitrage profit.
When a smart contract such as Futereum holds Ether inside it, the value reflection of the ETH
reflected on the price of the FUTR or FUTX digital note is essentially internally-reflected value
that is somehow part of the character of the digital note. The process by which this value
reflection comes about however does so slightly differently to that of most currencies, for it is
only created at point of purchase. Thus, value loading is the term we use to describe the moment
when ether (or whatever other digital asset is being employed as the unit of purchase) is sent
to the smart contract, safely-stored there and where the newly-issued digital note is
simultaneously sent from the same smart contract to the purchaser with the additional utility of
being re-exchangeable at some point with a greater or lesser amount of that initial purchase
asset.
4. Intrinsic Value of Digital Notes
Digital Notes have an additional dimension of utility to most cryptocurrencies in their potential
for re-exchange as units of proxy digital coinage with the original purchase asset stored in the
smart contract. As a result of this additional dimension of Utility, digital notes also have an
additional dimension of value that very significantly makes them far more conventional
monetary instruments than standard cryptocurrencies. This is because whereas valuing most
cryptocurrencies involves using a variety of experimental formula and “best-guess”
approaches, valuing digital notes is no different at all to valuing any investment is. When
4
undertaking an investment valuation, aby far the most common approach is to use a discounted
cashflow analysis to arrive at a net present value of the asset being valued.
The formula for calculating DCF for an asset value in present terms that is three years into the
future from now is expressed as follows:
PV = CF1 / (1+k) + CF2 / (1+k)2 + CF3 / (1+k)3 + [TCF / (k - g)] / (1+k)n-1
where PV = present value, CFi = cash flow in year I, k = discount rate, TCF = the terminal year
cash flow, g = growth rate assumption in perpetuity beyond terminal year and n = the number
of periods in the valuation model including the terminal year.
Presently, no digital asset can be valued this way as there is not an expected income receipt
from a cryptocurrency, since its utility is purely that of a payment utility. Indeed, prior to the
advent of cryptocurrencies, which due to limited supply quotas, tended towards big increases
in value as a result of a more exponential demand function than availability permitted at
equilibrium value, it was never imagined that currencies themselves would resemble income
assets. Currencies prior to cryptocurrency innovation were merely mechanisms with which to
pay with things for, and were only materially worth speculating on the direction of against one
another by applying substantial (1,000% in many cases) portions of leverage.
With digital notes, however, there is an income receipt that is expected at some point in the
future. This income receipt while not specifically a classifiable dividend or such is nevertheless
manifest in the form of a re-exchange of the digital notes with the original units the notes were
purchased with.
For example, when we purchase 114 FUTR for 1 ETH while the Futereum smart contract is
selling in the first of ten tiers, by the time the exchange of all FUTR and all Ether takes place,
assuming that the total number of tokens that count be issued are so in year two, then we would
be able to value the FUTR’s net present value discounting the asset at a comparable rate of
return we might achieve in the underlying asset.
So, let’s assume that ETH is $500 today, and that I expect to receive 8x the amount of Ether
from the Futereum smart contract as per the realistic probability of doing so if all the tiers of
the smart contract are sold out somewhere in year two. Further, I assume that ETH has risen to
$2,000 by three years’ time and that the growth rate going forward is 35% (around half). The
Futereum smart contract will not accept any re-exchange until year 3 if that is the case. Further,
I estimate that I make around 50% profit per year trading comparable cryptocurrencies.
Therefore:
((-500)/(1+50%))^1+(0)/(1+50%)^2+(4250)/(1+50%)^3+(1,687/50%-25%)/(1+50%)^3-1
+($2000*8/50%/35%)/(1+50%)^3-1
*8
= $4717.50
The result is that the value I have obtained from the Futereum smart contract’s functionality is
$4717.50 per Ether, representing what is a time-adjusted equivalent present value of an
additional $4,267.50 when Ether is in the form of a Futereum digital note.
Presciently, the DCF formula can be used to certify whether holding the actual underlying asset
or whether purchasing whatever digital note proxy coin equivalent is a better bet. For instance,
5
assuming that the appreciation of Ether is expected to be around 1000% per year for the next
3 years then:
(-500)/(1+1000%))^1+(0)/(1+1000%)^2+(50000)/(1+1000%)^3)+(50000/50%-25%)/(1+1000%)^3-1
+($45,000/1000%/100%)/(1+1000%)^3-1
*8
= $127,495
In this case, my expected value for Ether in 3 years’ time is $50,000, with an additional $5,000
a year in future growth since I discounted the growth down by 10x after the realization of the
investment and since Ether was growing at a rate of an additional 1000% per year during the
invested period. The value at which I invest my $500 is enhanced with thousands in additional
capital once the Ether is inside the Futereum smart contract as we can see. This means that to
make the same sort of return as I could expect to make using making Futereum digital notes I
would need to have an extra 200 times the capital I do today! Such a scenario is not unrealistic
in venture capital investments, doubling the potential excitement for such digital note products.
Clearly, the ability to calculate currency values on the same basis that we do income-generating
assets is a unique and unchartered innovation prospect.
The flexibility of digital notes to make permissible discounted cash-flow valuations of
cryptocurrency utility is perhaps the most exciting aspect of the smart contract build in terms
of wider application to the investment world, for in allowing such valuations to be performed,
digital notes can be compared on a like-for-like basis directly with all sorts of investments,
such as real estate, stocks, bonds and others.
Further, such investments now that they have a discounted future value based on a specific
income ratio equivalent, can be ascribed multiples for trading, in the way that securities are
valued via the business cash flows.
Remarkably, all this is made possible without securitizing a single portion of the digital
currency unit as well, inviting the possibility for significant levels of disruption in equity and
securities markets henceforth over the next few years.
5. MNY As a Digital Note
MNY is a unique type of digital note as a result of its loaded reflected value attributes. MNY
receives FUTR and FUTX as a form of payment and is made available for sale according to a
price history identical to that of Bitcoin’s historical trading cost multiplied by the value of one
FUTR and/or FUTX per every $10 expenditure in Fiat terms. This results in a number of
different scenarios.
First of all, MNY is usually either cheaper or more expensive to purchase on an intrinsic basis
in either FUTX and/or FUTR at any one time and/or depending on the amount of MNY an
investor is seeking to purchase, and rarely are the two likely to compare in terms of true value.
Unless both currencies are mineable via ETH at exactly the same level at the same point in
time, depending on the amount of FUTR an ETH holder is looking to purchase via smart
contract and/or on exchange, four purchase alternatives are possible:
1) Purchase FUTR with ETH via smart contract and mine MNY
2) Purchase FUTX with ETH via smart contract and mine MNY
6
3) Purchase FUTR with COE (or another cryptocurrency) via exchange and mine MNY
4) Purchase FUTX with COE (or another cryptocurrency) via exchange and mine MNY
MNY receives FUTR and FUTX as a unit of purchase. FUTR and FUTX are received as a unit
of purchase for ETH. Therefore, MNY is a “proxy of a proxy” for ETH. The result is one where
at the end of 21 million units of MNY issuance, all MNY is equally exchangeable for a lilkefor-
like percentage sum of FUTR and FUTX that is stored in the smart contract.
Because FUTR and FUTX both store ETH in their own smart contracts, and yet much of the
ETH that is stored therein is likely to become unswappable for a long period of time as a result
of the time that the ether proxy spends in the MNY smart contract (and is therefore nonexchangeable
with ether for that period) the amount of ETH per FUTR and per FUTX is likely
to increase a lot during the period that FUTR and FUTX are in the MNY smart contract. Thus,
at the point of re-exchange, which is to say, at the point when MNY switches for the FUTR
and FUTX distributed share that was used to purchase it, the amount of ETH per FUTR/FUTX
received per MNY could be much greater than the anticipated 1 ETH / 34 FUTR average that
is currently the case in forecast Futereum outcomes. In fact, it may well be the case that more
than 1 ETH per 1 FUTR and 1 FUTX is the resultant exchange amount. Either way, with 1
MNY being exchangeable for approximately 80 FUTR, the resultant outcome whereby even
the highest level of value obtainable on a per-level / cycle ratio, wherein 1 ETH is the cost of
2 FUTR, the ROI for all MNY sales is net positive.
Therefore, if we want to calculate a very simple net present value for one ether invested in
either FUTR or FUTX at the point that Futereum token is invested in MNY the calculation on
a discounted cash-flow basis is:
((-500)/(1+50%))^1*80+(0)/(1+50%)^2+(4250)/(1+50%)^3+(1,687/50%-25%)/(1+50%)^3-1
= ($1332.26*40 FUTR/ETH)/(1+50%)^3-1
= $15,788.75
This exponent on this calculation shows the power of the MNY mining tool when used in
conjunction with the FUTR/FUTX tokens. Specifically, 1 ETH with the value of $500 has a
net present value automatically, merely by positioning of the FUTR into the MNY smart
contract, of over $15,000. The result is a net present value gain of 29,000%, and this is
discounting at an aggregate compound rate of 50% a year, an incredibly unlikely event in and
of itself.
6. Crosschain Applications
Aside from the Futereum and MNY smart contracts, we have set up an exchange called
Yoshiee. Yoshiee features a number of pairs, both internal to the cryptocurrencies we have
designed and external. A group of 16 of the top cryptocurrecnies are pitted against one another
in a series of 8 pairs; each of the components of these pairs are then listed against MNY. MNY
is listed against tether, a controversial USD proxy issued by Bitfinex.
Although not likely to be backed by USD as the exchange claims, nevertheless Tether functions
as a liquid proxy for USD and thus is an acceptable Fiat substitute here for investors who want
to sell MNY early and cash out into USD. COE, a token manufactured principally for the
purpose of paying staff and early investors, sells against FUTR and FUTX in order for such
investors and parties to be able to easily access MNY. Note that the FUTR and FUTX sold
here on exchange is already-mined by another party via the Futereum smart contracts. As a
result, COE has a very limited supply with a variable cost increase derived from market sales
7
of the asset. All COE is premined and stored in a secure foundation wallet. This aspect of COE
whereby the entire currency is premined serves as an advantage for stimulating purchases of
MNY and/or FUTR and/or FUTX at any time where liquidity in either asset may be more
scarce.
One of the major features in the coming years of Blockchain innovation is the development of
other ex-Ethereum Blockchains as standards in and of themselves. The variances in core utility
between these various Blockchains is likely to be very slight, with by far the bulk of utility
remaining very much the same. Indeed, almost every industry competition comes down purely
to a value war of some kind ultimately, be it in the fields of automobiles, airlines or architecture.
We should not expect it will be any different then with Blockchain innovations.
Despite the magnificent prospects for alternate utility, no Blockchain is geared toward any sort
of specialised utility whatsoever. This implies even more that a value war of some kind is on
the verge of coming into being. Digital notes will help on several fronts with such value wars:
they will increase the value proposition of alternate Blockchains by retaining supply off the
tradeable market in the smart contracts of the notes themselves, they will help investors to more
accurately identify cross-chain values and locate where those values are identifiable as cheap
or dear based on future expected returns, and they will give the cross-chains a utility outside
their core payment utilities. Indeed, we have successfully translated the Futereum smart
contract onto the QTUM Blockchain thus far, and there is no performance distinction to date.
II. UNDERSTANDING THE ROLE OF SYNTHETIC UTILITIES
7. Summary of coins & proxies
ZUR: Digital Coin (Blockchain)
FUTR, FUTX: Digital Note (Synthetic Node)
MNY: Digital Note (Synthetic Blockchain)
COE: Digital Note (Synthetic Sidechain)
QUTR, QUTX: Digital Crosschain Note (Synthetic Crosschain Node)
TUF: Digital Note (Synthetic Node)
8. Digital Notes
DNs involve the synthetic application of payment utility via smart contracts for one or more
digital tokens combining to produce a natural hyper-inflation of value. By combining and
crossing over various token-release algorithms it is possible to create a number of value events
that, once combined, produce an extraordinary increase in gross value over the amount of value
initially invested over a very short space in time. This is the primary utility of DNs.
9. What happens to 1 ETH invested in FUTR and MNY Digital Notes?
1) 1 ETH = $450. This is invested into the Fueterum smart contracts (either FUTR or
FUTX) and produces 114 FUTR or 114 FUTX (on the first mining tier; soon it’ll be 89
FUTX in return as the first mining tier is nearly used up!) That is $3.94 / FUTR or
FUTX!
2) After that, use FUTR or FUTX and send it to the MNY smart contract. The MNY smart
contract mines at roughly the historical cost of BTC. In the example going from the
first MNY tier, we get in return for 114 FUTR, which purchases us 5579.43 MNY.
Therefore, we have spent 8 cents per MNY in this transaction. Half the FUTR you sent
is stored in the MNY smart contract with the other half paid out as part of a feemine.
8
Therefore about 56.5 FUTR is stored in return for your MNY, giving your MNY an
intrinsic value of around 4 cents / MNY at the point of purchase (because it is backed
by half the FUTR you paid in the form of a potentially swappable asset).
3) As MNY synthetic mining continues, the average cost of MNY increases a lot, meaning
more FUTR and more FUTX loaded with ETH in their own smart contracts begins to
build up, increasing the average intrinsic value of MNY.
4) At the end of the 21 million MNY issuance, all MNY swaps back for all the FUTR and
the FUTX in the MNY smart contract. The rate at which the MNY swaps back for
FUTR is about 80 FUTR per MNY. Therefore, you now have 446,355 FUTR in your
possession after you have swapped your 5579.43 MNY.
5) Now, the 446,335 FUTR has an increasing amount of ETH stored in the Futereum smart
contract. We don’t know how much ETH will be stored in the Futereum smart contracts,
but approximations based on timing events indicate that around 0.25 ETH per 1 FUTR
is a likely amount. The likely worst case possible event is that 0.03 ETH per 1 FUTR
will be yours (almost certainly it will be higher). In this worst case event, your total
ETH after you have swapped FUTR into its smart contract results in 13,525.30 ETH in
return for your 446,355 FUTR.
6) Assuming no increase in the price of ETH at all, the return in USD with ETH at $450
is $6,086,387. This represents a net return of 1,352,430%!
10. What about later-stage miners? Are they penalized to subsidize the earlier entrants?
The first thing that strikes you about any return of over one million percent is the potential for
there to be some sort of Ponzi-like quality to the value production process. However, when
configured correctly, there is no Ponzi value creation process in play at all. How is this? Simply,
because of the combined use of the Futereum smart contracts (there is either FUTR or FUTX
that can be used to mine MNY) and the MNY smart contract, both of which are releasing tokens
according to different algorithms, on top of the fact that prices vary according to differing
values of the underlying coins – in this case, ETH – there is every chance that a later-stage
miner may be able to obtain better value than an earlier-stage one.
To see this illustrated, consider the following:
A) A purchaser of MNY playing at tier 2,000 with an average price of 26.9 FUTR / MNY
purchases FUTR from the Futereum smart contract at the then-present value of 2 FUTR
/ ETH, since the Futereum smart contract is on its very last mining tier. ETH is selling
at $450 / ETH. At tier 2,000, MNY is selling for 26.9 FUTR / MNY. Therefore, the
purchaser spends $6,052.90 per MNY purchased. At the end of the swap-back, ETH is
still $450 and he receives a return of around 80 FUTR / MNY. He waits for a period of
time to elapse, until the FUTR reaches the final synthetic mining tier in the smart
contract, and sells his 80 FUTR for a discount of 15% to smart contract (ETH is still
$450 / ETH). The miner has made a profit of $24,547.10.
Tier: 2,000 | Price Paid / MNY: $6,052.90 | Profit: 306%
B) Another purchaser of MNY decides to come to the party a bit later and joins in at tier
2,500, where MNY is retailing from the smart contract at a price of 122.48 FUTR /
MNY. Clearly, if he holds out until the swap-back, the miner will end up with a net loss
9
in pure FUTR terms (although this would not be a case after multiple MNY cycles as a
result of the gradual build-up in unswapped FUTR that lies in the MNY smart contract).
However, this miner purchases FUTR at a cost of 1 ETH / 114 FUTR and ETH is still
$450 / ETH. Therefore, the effective dollar cost of mining MNY at this stage in the
synthetic mining cycle of MNY when utilizing the comparatively cheaper FUTR smart
contract value is $483.47. Later on, at tier 2,700, this miner notices that MNY is selling
at 727 FUTR /MNY. Discounting his MNY by 15% to smart contract mining cost in
terms of FUTR, he sells for a net profit of $112,082.09.
Tier: 2,500 | Price Paid / MNY: $483.47 | Profit: 23,182%
C) A third miner purchases the second miner’s MNY at $112,565.56 and holds out until
the end of the swap. During this time, ETH experiences something of a cryptobull
euphoria, and soars in value to $11,000 / ETH. After swapping his MNY for around 80
FUTR, he then waits for the Futereum smart contract to reach tier 10 and sells for a
15% discount to market. The miner has made a net gain of $327,917.91.
Tier: 2,700 | Price Paid / MNY: $112,082.09| Profit: 232 %
Clearly, the circumstances driving the profitability of MNY as a cash instrument are so varied
and so lacking in early/late stage correlation that there is no pyramid economics present. The
outcome of profitability for the miner of MNY simply varies, for a variety of reasons, from
market timing of the purchase and sale of ETH, FUTR and MNY, and a whole range of value
events that lie in between.
Consider that much of the FUTR and FUTX in the MNY smart contract, and by the same law
of logical reasoning, much of the ETH in the Futereum smart contracts will not swap and thus
will become excess FUTR / FUTX / ETH to swap-back for at the end of the next cycle, and we
can factor in an additional variety of calculations that show how even for the purchaser of
MNY at values far in excess of $100,000 / MNY, the smart contract makes economic sense on
a wage growth-adjusted, inflation-adjusted and market return-adjusted scale, and the product
simply adds up to being something of a great long term investment / value-inflated cash
instrument!
11. “If it’s this easy to make money, why hasn’t anyone done this before?”
To understand the likely answer to this question, an important realization needs to be grasped:
that despite the revolutionary changes in the way we live from the evolution of technologized
healthcare systems, to methods of transportation that would have previously been unthinkable
to our architectural construction, to our entertainment and digitization of information, there has
been no net alteration to the way we treat value in an economic sense in the past 2,000 years
or more.
This is a somewhat shocking reality when you consider the implications of it: everything, from
the way we fight wars and conquer entire countries (with digitally-enabled missile-bearing
hyper-fast aerodynamic vehicles that cover hundreds of miles an hour a mile above the earth)
to the way we live (with electricity enabling the lengthy and bacterially clean storage of food
and drink in refrigerators and lighting up our homes in the dark as well as cooling them down
in the heat or warming them up in the cold) has altered so radically that to the average citizen
of Julius Caesar’s Roman Empire the world would seem completely unrecognizable yet by the
same measurement, the fundamental way in which we calculate and redistribute value would
be entirely familiar. The net effect of this bipolarity in innovation trends between the scientific
revolution our lives have undergone in the past two millennia and the consistency of how we
10
treat the value that fuels such changes necessarily dictates that there is bound to be a
dangerously yawning wealth gap open up. Sure enough, we have arrived at such a point in
time.
Our perception of transactional value only radically altered as recently as 2009, with the
innovation of Bitcoin: before such a point, transactional value manufacture was considered
purely the domain of megabanks and sovereign governments. Shortly after, when Vitalik
Buterin designed an easy-to-use application that effectively sat on top of a Bitcoin-like internet
protocol (the internet protocol itself was then only two and a half decades old, remember) the
ease with which everyday individuals could create synthetic Bitcoin-type replicas and ascribe
them individually-constructed and sold values opened up exponentially more.
It is therefore only natural when we take into context the history of the development of the
internet in the late 1980s, to the development of an online consumer economy in the late 1990s
and 2000s, to the development of an internet monetary protocol at the end of the 2000s and the
installation of “smart” financial technology on top of that protocol in the mid-2010s that there
should be in the present day, which is to say, at the end of the 2010s, the emergence of superior
digitally-enabled value-related smart technology that could, like the other innovations that we
have been afforded over the past two millennia, radically alter our notions of equality, wealth
and society.
In a specific sense, the enabling of multi-varied algorithm-enabled transactional value
exchanges to inflate the value of money has only been in potential existence for the past two
years’ then – that’s since the creation of the Ethereum network. Before the creation of
Ethereum, the reality of MNY was not just unthinkable, it was impossible to execute with any
realistic sense of achievement. Out of those past two years, we have spent one of them
developing the Fuetreum and Monkey smart contracts which enable the value inflation effects
that are made possible in the form of MNY, the world’s first digitally-enhanced organically
value-inflatable currency. The question “why hasn’t this been done before?” is quite simply
answered in that before the present day, it hasn’t been possible to manufacture a currency with
such properties. Digitally distributed value is a whole new ball game.
12. What opportunities for other developers are there with respect to MNY?
Anyone can build a feeder currency for MNY by creating a digital note. In its most basic form
a digital note is a unit of value created on the Blockchain such as Tether, which exchanges for
/ purchases USD. In more complex guises, smart contracts are enabled to facilitate such
exchanges. MNY accepts smart contract enabled notes that have been thoroughly tested and
audited by one of Zur’s development team. The algorithms can vary and there is no rule as to
how the synthetic mining ratios between payment and re-exchange may happen. Generally,
MNY feeder currencies should be based upon a more established currency with high liquidity.
Once developed and approved, the feeder may submit to an open vote which is undertaken by
note holders using 1 MNY per vote per wallet. Within a pre-set period (say, a week) if the
feeder notes are accepted by the community in a majority vote outcome then the feeder may be
used to mine MNY too. The addition of feeder currencies is one of the most exciting features
of the product as it can vary the underlying MNY value as speed up / slow down mining.
13. What is Coeval (COE)?
If we take the observation that ZUR is a digital coin and MNY is a digital note, which is in
essence a “proxy of a proxy” (for example, with FUTR being a “proxy” of ETH) then COE is
a “side proxy.” A side proxy works a little like a synthetic side-chain. Similarly, COE borrows
11
from the MNY smart contract innovation certain features at the same time as it interacts with
that smart contract, in the same way a side-chain (gateway) is constructed a little like a host
Blockchain – with servers, nodes etc. – but which is ultimately an addendum product as
opposed to a primary feature. COE is an ERC20 smart contract that mines according to its own
price history on CoinMarketCap repetitiously in cycles the same way as MNY mines
repetitiously in cycles according to Bitcoin’s CMC price history entries.
What is unique about COE is that MNY is the currency that mines it, and that furthermore,
once it is is sufficiently bloated with MNY in its own smart contract as a result, it will be
allowed to mine MNY itself. This feature essentially puts MNY back in the MNY smart
contract, but with a coat. Holders also benefit from the sort of exponent increase post-reexchange
of COE for MNY that holders of FUTR or FUTX do in the case of ETH. The first
cycle of COE is completely premined and is delivered to a community of initial investors who
seeded the MNY smart contract development.
III: THE ZUR DIGITAL ECONOMY
DEVS
FUTX
FUTR
ETH
ERC20
ZUR
MNY
COE
Networks, Markets & Growth: Black = original payment unit / Light
grey = feeder synthetics / Yellow = Listed Digital Notes
The figure shows the three points of the golden triangle which are
MNY, a network (development) proxy; ZUR, a market proxy; and,
COE, a growth proxy
12
14. Introduction: the golden triangle
The ZUR Digital Note economy refers to the combination of MNY, Fuetereum Notes, ZUR
Notes, COE, and any third party developed tokens and/or digital notes that feed in some way
into one of those products. The aim of the product marketplace is to amplify returns for altcoin
and significant upper-ranking crytptocurrencies over time while offering a diversification of
total risk and providing additional trading and utility outlets at the same time. Further, we can
classify the currencies according to F-type synthetic variants: Embryo (F0): COE; Parent
(mother, F1): MNY; Parent (father, F1): ZUR; (Child, F2): FUTR FUTX.
The Golden Triangle is an inverted pyramid with top-down value inputs and bottom up utility
inputs that we use to illustrate the way in which value transference takes place among the digital
notes MNY, ZUR and COE in the Zur Economy. Essentially, all notes are proxies for whatever
the assets they represent: when grouped together, these assets carry important frames of
reference we can identify by the nature of the asset grouping that is being employed. In the
case of MNY, because FUTR and FUTX, both ETH proxies, are used to mine it and because
of MNY’s multiple utility status in the economy as a viable utility in both the context of ZUR
and COE, which it is the only digital asset of which to mine both, we call this digital note a
network proxy.
MNY is only ever mineable via digital notes; note that these digital notes need not necessarily
be seeded with ETH, but they cannot be pure utility tokens or else the impact on potential
returns is significantly lessened by the lack in the additional algorithm (i.e. there is less
distribution incurred). ZUR, which is mined directly by utility tokens, we characterise as a
market proxy, since the market directly mines into it as opposed to the Zur Economy network
as is the case with MNY. For COE, which is mined by our network proxy MNY but which
receives fees from both sides of the economy’s equation, the network and the market, and
which is used to whitelist access to our market proxy, the situation is one of some hybridisation
and significantly higher utility.
COE shares an equilibrium (the “network equilibrium”) rate with MNY so that as the wider
(also non-ERC) market rises in value it mines faster and vice-versa, pausing between mining
cycles for 9 month periods. This unique market-network equilibrium dictates the rate at which
COE mines in reference to the point where COE began its own cycle. Faster growing
economies will produce faster cycles, which will produce shorter periods to the realisation of
capital upon re-exchange and to the 9-month non-mining period that results in significantly
more limited supply; conversely, COE will receive many more tokens when the market
contracts and consequentially will take significantly longer to reach the 9-month zero-supply
pauses in between cycles as the market contracts. This is consistent with the idea of establishing
a market-to-network equilibrium. Thus COE is considered a growth proxy.
15. How ZUR Economy digital notes interact
In the example presented, ETH, a Blockchain coin, mines FUTR and FUTX, both of which
mine MNY (later on, subject to a voting count, third party developers can make similar digital
futer notes with different base cryptocurrencies to ETH and different Futer mining schedules
to Fibonacci in order to mine MNY). A variable amount of the fee comprising ETH, FUTR,
FUTX and other cryptocurrency proxies and their base currencies are deposited in COE smart
contract. Meanwhile. ERC20 tokens mine ZUR, a specially-tailored digital note that receives
ERC20 tokens NOT already in the form of digital notes (e.g. ICO tokens in ERC20 compliant
format.)
13
Once again, fees in the form of the ERC20 compliant crypto are deposited at variable rates into
the COE smart contract. Finally, both ZUR and MNY are offered utility in the form of
exchanging for and with COE, which may be used in turn to mine MNY and/or ZUR. In this
way, a Blockchain coin (ETH) and Blockchain tokens (ERC20) are offered additional utility
in the form of being converted into notes that re-purchase greater coin and token value.
Because each note stores a portion of every other note too, there is a varying degree of shared
value among all the assets. The extent to which value sharing takes place is 100% in the case
of COE (a “value coeval”), about 25% in the case of MNY and around the same or less (perhaps
as low as 5% ultimately) in the case of ZUR Notes.
16. ZUR Notes
ZUR is a multi-mining digital note for ERC20 tokens. It has a total cycle supply of 127,000,000
ZUR, all of which can be exchanged for 25% of the total value used to mine them at the end
of each cycle or 50% of the value that mined them at the end of the century cycle (100 cycle
periods). Fees are counted at 25% for mining and 50% for non-exchanged ZUR. The per level
amounts of ZUR mine according to a progressive Fibonacci ratio counting up from 114 to
39378 (where 114/1 is the starting point and 39,378/1 is the ending point). This steep Fibonacci
progression means that the majority of mining is focused on the first tier every cycle. However,
because there are 13 possible purchase value choices the amount per cycle that is mined in
USD terms varies widely.
The way the various feeder currencies are priced is according to a time-to-expected-price
handicapping system. Each feeder mining instrument is assigned a handicap of between 1-13
and this handicap is applied to the token / note based on its expected time until maturity.
Maturity for notes is the intrinsic value at point of expected re-exchange; for tokens it is a less
quantitatively defined valuation process.
ZUR Notes: The algorithm of ZUR Notes as if it is mined only by MNY
14
The handicap will narrow or widen the dollar window of opportunity of mining since every
note/token is unitised according to its Target or Intrinsic value. A total of $400,000 per cycle
of ZUR is mined using only USDT rising to $5.5 million per cycle in the event only MNY is
used as the mining feeder based on a 1,300% progression in value between the two. Thus,
anywhere between $400 million and $5.5 billion is achieved in total contributions of
cyptocurrencies per century-cycle.
For the last level, with the handicap being 1, clearly this means there is no time until maturity
of the token. Hence the 13th level is always applied to Tether (USDT). In a similar way MNY
will always represent the longest target time until maturity (5 years) which is handicapped at
13 based on the note’s beginning-of-cycle (ETH price dependent) target price in USD units.
ZUR completes 100 cycles after which point it eventually re-exchanges like for like with half
of all the unit values that went into purchasing it, giving it a total supply maximum of 127
billion ZUR per century-cycle. After ZUR has completed a century-cycle it reverts back to the
start of another century cycle.
17. Cryptocurrency tether Instruments
MNY, USDT + 11 newly selected tokens per cycle are feeders for ZUR. Because there are so
many purchase price variables for ZUR Notes, but at the same time, there is a certain range for
the underlying value held inside the ZUR smart contract, ZUR is effectively the first form of
crypto tether backed by multiple other cryptocurrencies. If a total of 127 billion ZUR are issued
per century cycle and there is between $500m and $5.5 billion of market value inside the smart
contract (not including any price rises beyond the Target Price or Intrinsic Price variables
obviously) then ZUR always has a finite value of between 2.5 cents / ZUR and 25 cents / ZUR.
The additional utility of this slowly rising form of tethered crypto value cannot be
underestimated as a potential Blockchain and real-world form of payment. Anticipating such
widespread demand in conjunction with the widespread nature of the ICO investors that will
participate in investing in ZUR, we can set a requirement that all investors first pay an entryfee
payment in COE, where COE serves as the price of entry to the smart contract at a fixed
start-of-cycle sum (e.g. 10 COE). Since MNY mined into COE is the only way other than by
purchasing COE off exchange that it can be obtained, the result is that MNY has immediate
additional widespread utility for thousands of ICO investors looking to diversify away their
portfolios from standard holdings and generate more consistent and higher overall returns.
18. ZUR Note Utilities
For players of ICO pools, ICOs or similar cryptocurrency investments that are found on the
ERC network, returns can vary widely and return timelines are often even more difficult to
second guess, even if the project has established market making support in place. ZUR Notes
offer the same utility for ICO pools players with progressively higher values of issuance per
note meaning a more diversified and a higher value opportunity in the token investing space.
19. FUTR: Use of Phi Algorithm to Simulate PoW Mining Effect
The Fibonacci sequence is a numerical order based on the algebraic function Phi first
discovered by Leonardo Pisano and published the Italian mathematician’s 1202 book Liber
Abacci.
The sequence was first postulated by Pisano as a means to understanding the potential infinite
increase of rabbit populations in rural areas, and it is today used to underpin many of the
world’s most sophisticated financial markets trading algorithms.
15
The ratio comprises a mathematical formula whereby the previous two numbers in the
sequence combine to give the result of the subsequent answer to the equation ad infinitum:
1 + 1 = 2
1 + 2 = 3
2 + 3 = 5
3 + 5 = 8
5 + 8 = 13
8+ 13 = 21
13 + 21 = 34
21 + 34 = 55
34 + 55 = 89
55 + 89 = 114
etc.
A wide number of professional Crypto traders also rely heavily and in some cases exclusively
on Fibonacci-regressive technical analysis today to formulate alpha-generating trading ideas
and approaches. Futereum Smart Contracts must contain two apparently contradictory
functions which must be equally satisfied in order to justify the utility of the tokens that are
purchased in the form of Futereum Utility Tokens. Those functions are the ones as set out in
our second Blockchain build-out objective:
Function 1 = The smart contract results in a more equitable distribution of Ether than before it
was employed by the user
Function 2 = Initial miners and high-frequency miners of Futereum Smart Contract tokens
should stand to benefit more from this equitable distribution
The paradox is resolved by means of employing a Fibonacci equation inside the mining
algorithm of the Futereum Smart Contract. In the event of the Futereum Smart Contract for
Ether (FUTR), we employed the equation as an expression of the amount of FUTR an ETH
receives in the process of mining the smart contract. I achieved this by progressively decreasing
the amount of FUTR mined per ETH sent to the smart contract as the mining level is increased:
Level FUTR FUTR/ETH ETH
1 1,000,000 114 8,772
2 990,000 89 11,124
3 960,000 55 17,455
4 910,000 34 26,765
5 720,000 21 34,286
6 650,000 13 50,000
7 560,000 8 70,000
8 450,000 5 90,000
9 320,000 3 106,667
10 170,000 2 85,000
Total 6,730,000 - 500,067
FUTR: The first use of Fibonacci in a token mining schedule
resembles the mining schedule for BTC very closely as a
result of the similarity to the POW “halvening events”
16
In the example above, which represents the actual number of Ether employed in the mining of
the FUTR smart contract, 1 million FUTR initially distributed across a range of miners who
collectively contribute 8,772 ETH; subsequently, 990,000 FUTR are mined by a total of 11,
124 ETH etc. Naturally, the progressive difficulty (cost) of the mining process is only
compounded by any price increase in ETH.
In this way, the Fibonacci equation driving the FUTR mining algorithm of this Futereum Smart
Contract creates an identical mining effect to Proof-of-Work (PoW) mining, where difficulty
of a coin’s mining is subject to two factors, those being the cost of the unit of value being
mined and the relative age of the Blockchain at the point of mining.
To date, we have not been able to discover a more efficient mining protocol type than PoW.
PoW is such an effective method of digital currency mining precisely because over time it
forces the miners into higher cost-per-unit mining equations, resulting in an intrinsically higher
cost (price) per coin. Economically this process produces a greater expansion of the network
underlying the mining process. This POW-likeness of the FUTR does not in itself result in a
more equitable distribution of Ether to the FUTR miners however. Therefore, to achieve this
using the Fibonacci sequence we employed in the smart contract development, we embedded
an exchange function at the end of a fixed period in time after the last mining of the smart
contract took place.
If all the FUTR produced by the smart contract is mined in under a 12-month period, then at
the end of month 13 a temporary function is enabled in the smart contract whereby a FUTR
holder is given a brief period of time to exchange the amount of FUTR held for a percentilewise
equivalent amount of ETH held in the smart contract since the point when the FUTR was
mined.
This percentage-equitable exchange of FUTR with ETH held in the smart contract, when
combined with the Fibonacci equation that is the basis of our mining algorithm, results in
simultaneous equitable distribution of Ether to FUTR holders as well as preferential treatment
of early and regular FUTR miners, since those who mined FUTR in the initial period of the
smart contract and those who mined FUTR when ETH was relatively cheaper in value and who
are thereby likely to be the most active miners gain more than late-stage one-off miners of
FUTR.
20. Non-Premined Approach: Fee-Enabled Mining Solution
It has been a relatively popular occurrence recently for developers of Blockchain and smart
contracts to premine a portion of the token supply as a means of rewarding themselves or the
foundations they represent in financial terms for the work undertaken at point of development.
I am uncomfortable with the concept of premine for the reason that it tends to lead to a moral
hazard effect, whereby the party who is the beneficiary of the premined tokens is usually
excessively rewarded versus those holders who either mined the tokens or who purchase the
tokens on an exchange. As a direct consequence of premine containing such a developer-biased
value function, core developers who ought to be safeguarding the value of the projects they
undertake to build frequently accept offers for their tokens on exchanges which are far below
an acceptable market price for that of their customers, and this substantially undermines the
utility token price over time.
17
Therefore, instead of premining the FUTR smart contract, we developed a fee schedule based
on achievement of actual mining levels being achieved over time. Assuming 10 Levels of
mining difficulty being achieved over 12 months, with an additional one-off charge for product
development, the fee schedules we developed is as follows:
• Monthly Charge: 0.4% for Month 1-12 (there is no fee for additional months)
• Level Cost: 0.6% per Level 1-10
• Administrative Fee: 5%
These fees, which comprise a total of 15%, are removed at source upon mining of the FUTR
in ETH tokens. We find this a more effective approach to rewarding the smart contract
developers and the foundation than the premining alternative, principally because it
incentivises us to mine and hold FUTR with the ETH received by way of the small fee
payments charged instead of selling out the order books on exchange with the premined tokens.
21. MNY
MNY is the primary monetary instrument of the ZUR ICO economy. Right now, it is only
mineable with Futereum and Futereum X digital notes but that may change in the future. MNY
is the counterpoint in the ZUR century cycle mining process to USDT, with a high handicap
of 13 due to its elongated swap-back period (being that which is after all 21,000,000 MNY are
issued and subsequently re-exchanged for Futereum notes).
22. COE
COE is an MNY synthetic side chain product designed to purchase and be purchased via smart
contract (by) MNY. COE has an ascribed minimum base value which is the value at which it
is permitted to mine MNY. When it falls below the MBV (which is determined by the future
maturity value of MNY at the start-of-cycle ZUR Digital Note mining cycles divided by the
total dollar value of all assets held in the COE smart contract) then it is shut off from mining
MNY.
However, COE may still mine ZUR if eligible to do so without the requirement to maintain
any base value level. Only MNY ever mines COE however, so once COE falls below the
minimum base value of MNY at maturity of the end of the next ZUR cycle, it will stop
producing more notes until the base value increases.
23. Conclusion
The duality in Ether proxy status that is conferred on MNY is what helps it achieve a truly
distributed value outcome, as well as what allows it to have a non-definite intrinsic value at
any point in time due to the amount of ETH stored in both FUTR and FUTX smart contracts
which varies according to level and cycle of the individual smart contracts. In other words,
while one can arrive at a concrete value for MNY, that value is only concrete at the moment in
time the calculation is performed. A split-second later, it may change (albeit not by a lot). This
quality of MNY is expected to give it both payment utility and speculation / trading utility as
merchants and speculators can divine a concrete value for the digital asset at the same time as
they can speculate on its future price outcome.
The ZUR Digital Note Economy is so named because of the function of the century-cycle
mining functionality employed in the ZUR Notes smart contract, which predominantly serves
to re-distribute and enhance the returns ICO and Blockchain ERC20 token investors get on
their investments at the same time as creating a small proxy cluster of time- and value-varied
18
digital currency investment products which can be valued exactly the same way as for any
standard investment product due to the synthetic income feature of the constant re-exchanges
occurring among all the varies assets in the economy.
Ultimately, it is expected that the ZUR Digital Note Economy will become one of the major
catalysts for stimulating investment consistently (rather than in a patchwork quilt way as is
currently the case) across the Blockchain asset market while always being grounded in
autonomous and trustless smart tech solutions without the dependency investors current have
on centralised exchanges, ICO promoters and misleading cryptocurrency news cycles (often
now too with government anti-Blockchain PR). Thus, the ZUR Digital Note Economy could
become one of the principle catalysts for unique and unprecedented tech innovation in
Blockchain while also serving to be Blockchain investors’ best long-standing reliable source
of income and capital gains with a non-traditional market correlation and a higher-than-average
(several hundred percent plus per quarterly annual cycle) return functionality.
The Golden Triangle, comprising MNY, ZUR and COE are designed specifically to be the only
Blockchain assets that a passive investor needs to buy to access the innovation, growth and
dynamism on the ERC network. To access an ETH-biased portfolio, simply purchase more
MNY than ZUR; if an investor wants a more speculative altcoin-weighted portfolio then a
ZUR-weighted portfolio makes more sense.
An investor can achieve true passive value holdings however simply by holding one unit of
value consistently: COE. With COE, an investor is able to hold a continually rising amount of
every single token used to mine into ZUR and MNY, including, via its MNY holdings that
contain elements of COE within them, more COE. COE is unrestricted for exchange-back
between 50,000 – 100,000 COE issuance leaving a great length of time for exchange utility,
unlike the other two tokens which have limited exchange-back periods once in a while. At the
same time, its utility whereby a minimum base value is held over the course of its mining
lifespan combined with inter-cycle 9-month periods of zero mining utility holds enough supply
off the market to give it a continually – and substantially – supported market pricing movement.
Appendix: Smart Contracts
FUTR: https://etherscan.io/token/0xc83355ef25a104938275b46cffd94bf9917d0691
FUTX: https://etherscan.io/token/0x8b7d07b6ffB9364e97B89cEA8b84F94249bE459F
MNY: https://etherscan.io/token/0xd2354acf1a2f06d69d8bc2e2048aabd404445df6
2018 © Daniel Mark Harrison All Rights Reserved
COE Returns: The exponential increase in MNY value combined with any sort of market moving event gives COE a
huge edge over the returns of the market as a whole. Here, the market rises 3,880% while COE jumps 389,590%.
